h1. Bloonix-Agent installation

bc. # Debian / Ubuntu
apt-get install bloonix-agent

bc. # Red Hat / CentOS / Fedora
yum install bloonix-agent

bc. # SuSE / SLES
zypper install bloonix-agent

h2. Bloonix-Agent configuration

p. The configuration file of the agent:

bc. /etc/bloonix/agent/main.conf

p. To monitor the local system, you have to configure two sections.

h2. Section: server

p. Example configuration:

bc.. server {
    host p1.bloonix.de, s1.bloonix.de
    port 5460
    mode failover
    ssl_verify_mode peer

    # Debian / SuSE / SLES
    ssl_ca_path /etc/ssl/certs

    # Red Hat / CentOS / Fedora
    ssl_ca_file /etc/pki/tls/certs/ca-bundle.crt
}

p. _Please replace_ the hostnames in the section _server__ with the hostname or ip address of the host where the Bloonix-Server were installed.

p. *Notice:* If the Bloonix-Server uses a self signed certificate then you have to set the SSL parameter __ssl_verify_peer__ to __none__, otherwise the Bloonix-Agent throws an error because the agent is unable to validate the certificate.

h3. Section: host

p. Example configuration:

bc. host {
    host_id 12345
    password secret
}

p. In the section __host__ it is configured the Host which was furnished in the WebGUI. Put down the Host-ID and the password. Then you can restart the agent, so that this is begun with the new configuration.

bc. /etc/init.d/bloonix-agent restart
# or
systemctl restart bloonix-agent.service

p. If this agent is a central agent to monitor multiple hosts, as for example Router and Switches by SNMP, you can also put down these hosts.

bc. host {
    host_id 12345
    password secret
}
host {
    host_id 12346
    password secret
}
host {
    host_id 12347
    password secret
}
