h1. Quick installation guide on CentOS 7 with MariaDB

h3. Install the Bloonix repository

bc. apt-get update
apt-get -y install apt-transport-https ca-certificates

bc. wget -q -O- https://download.bloonix.de/repos/debian/bloonix.gpg | apt-key add -
echo "deb https://download.bloonix.de/repos/debian/ jessie main" \
    >>/etc/apt/sources.list.d/bloonix.list

h3. Install the Elasticsearch repository

bc. wget -qO - https://packages.elastic.co/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch | apt-key add -
echo "deb http://packages.elastic.co/elasticsearch/2.x/debian stable main" \
    >>/etc/apt/sources.list.d/elasticsearch-2.x.list

p. For security reasons the parameter __network.bind_host__ should be changed in __/etc/elasticsearch/elasticsearch.yml__, so that Elasticsearch doesn't listen on all IP addresses. Example:

bc. network.bind_host: 127.0.0.1

h3. Package installation

bc. apt-get update
apt-get -y install \
    nginx \
    mariadb-server \
    elasticsearch \
    openjdk-7-jre \
    bloonix-webgui \
    bloonix-server \
    bloonix-agent \
    bloonix-plugins-basic \
    bloonix-plugins-linux

h3. Init MariaDB

bc. systemctl start mysql
mysql_secure_installation

h3. Nginx

p. Create the configuration file __/etc/nginx/conf.d/001_bloonix.conf__ with the following content:

bc. include /etc/bloonix/webgui/nginx.conf;

p. or just execute the following command:

bc. echo "include /etc/bloonix/webgui/nginx.conf;" >/etc/nginx/conf.d/001_bloonix.conf

h3. Start Elasticsearch and Nginx

bc. systemctl start elasticsearch
systemctl restart nginx

h3. Init Bloonix template for Elasticsearch

bc. /srv/bloonix/webgui/schema/init-elasticsearch localhost:9200

h3. Init Bloonix schema for MariaDB

bc. /srv/bloonix/webgui/schema/init-database --mysql

h3. Plugin meta data

p. After the database were successfully initiated and is running, you can install the package __bloonix__plugin_config__ that imports the plugin meta data into the database:

bc. apt-get -y install bloonix-plugin-config

h3. Configure the agent

p. Edit the configuration of the Bloonix Agent and configure the section __server__:

bc. vim /etc/bloonix/agent/main.conf

p. Set in section server{}:

==
<pre><code># Bloonix-Server hostname (demo.bloonix.org is just an example)
host demo.bloonix.org

# If you use a self signed certificate, then you have
# to turn off certificate validation
ssl_verify_mode none
</code></pre>
==

h3. Start all Bloonix services

bc. systemctl start bloonix-webgui
systemctl start bloonix-server
systemctl start bloonix-srvchk
systemctl start bloonix-agent

h3. Start all services automatically at system boot

bc. systemctl enable bloonix-webgui
systemctl enable bloonix-server
systemctl enable bloonix-srvchk
systemctl enable bloonix-agent
systemctl enable mariadb
systemctl enable nginx

h3. Ready to rumble

p. Done! :-) Now you can login into the WebGUI. The initial username and password is __admin/admin__
