h1. Repositories

h2. Repository for Debian and Ubuntu

h3. Supported versions

p. Note that only Squeeze, Wheezy und Jessie will be supported.

h3. Installation of the Bloonix repositories

p. The Bloonix repositories are accessible over HTTPS, for this reason you have to install at first __apt-transport-https__.

bc. apt-get update
apt-get install apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl

p. As next you can import the Public-Signing-Key of Bloonix:

bc. wget -q -O- https://download.bloonix.de/repos/debian/bloonix.gpg | apt-key add -

p. In the next step add the Bloonix repository into __/etc/apt/sources.list.d/bloonix.list__:

bc. # Debian 6:
echo "deb https://download.bloonix.de/repos/debian/ squeeze main" \
    >>/etc/apt/sources.list.d/bloonix.list

bc. # Debian 7:
echo "deb https://download.bloonix.de/repos/debian/ wheezy main" \
    >>/etc/apt/sources.list.d/bloonix.list

bc. # Debian 8:
echo "deb https://download.bloonix.de/repos/debian/ jessie main" \
    >>/etc/apt/sources.list.d/bloonix.list

bc. # Ubuntu 12.04:
echo "deb https://download.bloonix.de/repos/ubuntu/ precise main" \
    >>/etc/apt/sources.list.d/bloonix.list

bc. # Ubuntu 14.04:
echo "deb https://download.bloonix.de/repos/ubuntu/ trusty main" \
    >>/etc/apt/sources.list.d/bloonix.list

p. List all available bloonix packages:

bc. apt-get update
apt-cache search bloonix

h2. Repository for Red Hat und CentOS

h3. Supported versions

p. At the moment only Red Hat 6 / CentOS 6 and Red Hat 7 / CentOS 7 are supported. The usage of Fedora with one of the repositories shouldn't be problem.

h3. EPEL (Extra Packages for Enterprise Linux)

p. For Red Hat and CentOS the EPEL repository is needed because Bloonix needs some packages that are not available in the standard repository, so please install the EPEL repository:

bc. yum install epel-release

p. "Link to the EPEL projekt":https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/EPEL

h3. Installation of the Bloonix repositories

bc. # RHEL 6:
rpm -ivh https://download.bloonix.de/repos/centos/6/noarch/bloonix-release-0.7-1.noarch.rpm

bc. # RHEL 7:
rpm -ivh https://download.bloonix.de/repos/centos/7/noarch/bloonix-release-0.7-1.noarch.rpm

p. List all available bloonix packages:

bc. yum search bloonix

h3. Manual installation of the repository

p. Just create the file __/etc/yum.repos.d/Bloonix.repo__ with the following data:

bc. [bloonix]
name=Bloonix repository
baseurl=https://download.bloonix.de/repos/centos/$releasever/$basearch
gpgcheck=1
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-Bloonix

p. Import the Public-Signing-Key of Bloonix:

bc. wget https://download.bloonix.de/repos/centos/RPM-GPG-KEY-Bloonix \
    --output-document /etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-Bloonix
rpm --import /etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-Bloonix

h2. Repository für openSUSE

h3. Supported versions:

p. At the moment only openSUSE 13 is supported. If you use SLES then the SLES version should be compabible to openSUSE 13.

h3. Installation of the Bloonix repository

bc. rpm -ivh https://download.bloonix.de/repos/suse/13/noarch/bloonix-release-0.7-1.noarch.rpm

p. List all available bloonix packages:

bc. zypper search bloonix
